# **GREECE**

![Alt_text](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/70/Ancient_Times%2C_Greek._-_009_-_Costumes_of_All_Nations_%281882%29.JPG/1200px-Ancient_Times%2C_Greek._-_009_-_Costumes_of_All_Nations_%281882%29.JPG)

## _History_

The history of Greece can be traced back to Stone Age hunters. Later came early
farmers and the Minoan and Mycenaean civilizations. This was followed by a
period of wars and invasions, known as the Middle Ages. Around 1100 BC, the
people of the Dorians invaded from the north and spread along the west coast. In
the period 500-336 BC, Greece was divided into small city-states, each of which
consisted of a city with the surrounding countryside.

The ancient Greek classical and Hellenistic eras are without doubt the most
beautiful times, having left behind a myriad of ideas, concepts and the basics
of what we now call "Western civilization". However, the previous two millennia
leading to these ancient times, as well as the following two millennia, are all
part of the history of Greece after leaving an equally rich cultural imprint on
the territory. Much of the Greek civilization has survived either directly or
through changes to the present day.

The dialects of ancient Greece have greatly influenced both the modern Greek
language and the vocabularies of other languages ​​spoken in the world today.
The art and architecture of ancient Greece have proved highly influential in our
time for the inner western society. The much-celebrated Renaissance was driven
in large part by the rediscovery of ancient Greek ideas through texts and works
of art, which until then had been repressed from the recognition of the
authority of the church and the supernatural power.

It should be noted that history is a discipline that has been conceived for the
first time in ancient Greece. Herodotus (484-425 BC) is considered the "Father
of History" and was the first to record the events and human actions for the
sole purpose of handing down to future generations. Not much later than
Herodotus, Thucydides (460-395 BC) in his History of the Peloponnesian War, he
enrolled his name in the discipline of history, in an attempt to present the
story in an "objective", creating links between human actions and events. Their
approach and method for recording the historical events would become the guiding
light for historians of the following two thousand years.

## _Name_

The native name of the country in Modern Greek is Ελλάδα (Elláda, pronounced
[eˈlaða]). The corresponding form in Ancient Greek and conservative formal
Modern Greek (Katharevousa) is Ἑλλάς (Hellas, classical: [hel.lás], modern:
[eˈlas]). This is the source of the English alternative name Hellas, which is
mostly found in archaic or poetic contexts today. The Greek adjectival form
ελληνικός (ellinikos, [eliniˈkos]) is sometimes also translated as Hellenic and
is often rendered in this way in the formal names of Greek institutions, as in
the official name of the Greek state, the Hellenic Republic (Ελληνική
Δημοκρατία, [eliniˈci ðimokraˈti.a]).[11]

The English names Greece and Greek are derived, via the Latin Graecia and
Graecus, from the name of the Graeci (Γραικοί, Graikoí; singular Γραικός,
Graikós), who were among the first ancient Greek tribes to settle Magna Graecia
in southern Italy. The term is possibly derived from the Proto-Indo-European
root \*ǵerh₂-, "to grow old", more specifically from Graea (ancient city), said
by Aristotle to be the oldest in Greece, and the source of colonists for the
Naples area.
